# Description

[**ElsieFour**](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/339.pdf) (LC4) is a
low-tech authenticated encryption algorithm that can be computed by
hand. Rather than operating on octets, the cipher operates on this
36-character alphabet:

    #_23456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

Each of these characters is assigned an integer 0â€“35. The cipher uses a
6x6 tile *substitution-box* (s-box) where each tile is one of these
characters. A key is any random permutation of the alphabet arranged in
this 6x6 s-box. Additionally a marker is initially placed on the tile in
the upper-left corner. The s-box is permuted and the marked moves during
encryption and decryption.

[See the illustrations from the paper](https://imgur.com/a/rYegtZn) (album).

Each tile has a positive "vector" derived from its value: `(N % 6, N /
6)`, referring to horizontal and vertical movement respectively. All
vector movement wraps around, modulo-style.

To encrypt a single character, locate its tile in the s-box, then
starting from that tile, move along the vector of the tile under the
marker. This will be the ciphertext character (the output).

Next, the s-box is permuted. Right-rotate the row containing the
plaintext character. Then down-rotate the column containing the
ciphertext character. If the tile on which the marker is sitting gets
rotated, marker goes with it.

Finally, move the marker according to the vector on the ciphertext tile.

Repeat this process for each character in the message.

Decryption is the same, but it (obviously) starts from the ciphertext
character, and the plaintext is computed by moving along the *negated*
vector (left and up) of the tile under the marker. Rotation and marker
movement remains the same (right-rotate on plaintext tile, down-rotate
on ciphertext tile).

If that doesn't make sense, have a look at the paper itself. It has
pseudo-code and a detailed step-by-step example.

# Input Description

Your program will be fed two lines. The first line is the encryption
key. The second line is a message to be decrypted.

# Output Description

Print the decrypted message.

# Sample Inputs

    s2ferw_nx346ty5odiupq#lmz8ajhgcvk79b
    tk5j23tq94_gw9c#lhzs

    #o2zqijbkcw8hudm94g5fnprxla7t6_yse3v
    b66rfjmlpmfh9vtzu53nwf5e7ixjnp

# Sample Outputs

    aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

    be_sure_to_drink_your_ovaltine

# Challenge Input

    9mlpg_to2yxuzh4387dsajknf56bi#ecwrqv
    grrhkajlmd3c6xkw65m3dnwl65n9op6k_o59qeq

# Bonus

Also add support for encryption. If the second line begins with `%` (not
in the cipher alphabet), then it should be encrypted instead.

    7dju4s_in6vkecxorlzftgq358mhy29pw#ba
    %the_swallow_flies_at_midnight

    hemmykrc2gx_i3p9vwwitl2kvljiz

If you want to get *really* fancy, also add support for nonces and
signature authentication as discussed in the paper. The interface for
these is up to you.

# Credit

This challenge was suggested by user /u/skeeto, many thanks! If you have any challenge ideas, please share them in /r/dailyprogrammer_ideas and there's a good chance we'll use them.

---

[Link to origin](https://www.reddit.com/r/dailyprogrammer/8jvbzg)